feat(curriculum): add higher order function lab (#56780)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/lab-book-organizer/67172b43f84bcd2dec238a3d.md

---
id: 67172b43f84bcd2dec238a3d
title: Build a Book Organizer

> challengeType: 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
challengeType: 14
```

---
id: 67172b43f84bcd2dec238a3d
title: Build a Book Organizer
challengeType: 14
dashedName: build-a-book-organizer
---

# --description--

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab. 

**User Stories:**

1. You should have an array of objects named `books` where each object in the array should have a string `title`, another string `authorName`, and a number `releaseYear`. 

2. Your `books` array should have a minimum of three objects.

> 3. You should have a callback function named `sortByYear` that accepts two books, `book1`, and `book2` as parameter for sorting the array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You should have a callback function named `sortByYear` that accepts two books as parameter for sorting the array.
```
Since the naming is free I would remove `book1` and `book2` from this user story and refer to them as "the first book" or "the second book" in the other user stories.

Author: I am working on the filtering and sorting bits.

4. The `sortByYear` function should return `-1` if the `releaseYear` of `book1` object is smaller than that of the `book2` object.

5. The `sortByYear` function should return `1` if the `releaseYear` of `book1` object is bigger than that of the `book2` object.

> 6. The `sortByYear` function should return `0` for all other scenarios.

Reviewer: What are the other scenarios? The two release years being equal?

Author: Yes. Should I mention that instead of "other scenarios"?

Reviewer: It would be better probably :+1:

7. You should filter out books written after a certain year such as 1950 from the `books` array and save the filtered array in a new array named `filteredBooks`.

8. You should sort the books in the `books` array according to their `releaseYear` in ascending order and save the sorted array in a new array named `filteredBooksSorted`.

> 9. You should iterate over the `filteredBooksSorted` array and print out the details of each book following the `<BOOK_TITLE> by <BOOK_AUTHOR> (<releaseYear>)` format.

Reviewer: There's no test for this user story

Author: Working on these two.

Author: I've added test for the 8th story and removed the 9th one.

# --hints--

You should have a function `sortByYear` in your code.

```js
assert.isFunction(sortByYear);
```

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion

Your `sortByYear` function should take two parameters.

```js
assert.lengthOf(sortByYear, 2);
```

````

Author: Didn't know I could do that. Thanks!

Reviewer: It's a quite recent discovery :smile:

```js
assert.equal(sortByYear({release_year: 1913}, {release_year: 1925}), -1);
assert.equal(sortByYear({release_year: 1925}, {release_year: 1913}), 1);
assert.equal(sortByYear({release_year: 1925}, {release_year: 1925}), 0);
```

You should have an array `books` in your code.

```js
assert.isArray(books)
```

Your `books` array should have at least three book objects.

```js
assert.isAtLeast(books.length, 3)
```

Your `books` array should contain objects each with a string `title`, another string `author_name`, and a number `release_year`.

```js

books.forEach((book) => {
  assert.isObject(book);
  assert.sameMembers(Object.keys(book), ["title", "author_name", "release_year"]);
  assert.isString(book.title);
  assert.isString(book.author_name);
  assert.isNumber(book.release_year);
})
```

You should have an array `filteredBooks` in your code.

```js
assert.isArray(filteredBooks)
```

You should have an array `filteredBooksSorted` in your code.

```js
assert.isArray(filteredBooksSorted)
```

You should call the `filter` higher-order function on the `books` array with a callback to filter out books and save the filtered array in a new array named `filteredBooks`.

```js

> assert.match(code, "let\s{1,}filteredBooks\s*=\s*books\.filter\(\(book\)\s*=>\s*book\.release_year\s*[<>=]\s*[0-9]\)")

Author: Any suggestions on how I can make it so that any of these three passes the test?

---
id: 67172b43f84bcd2dec238a3d
title: Build a Book Organizer
challengeType: 14
dashedName: build-a-book-organizer
---

# --description--

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab. 

**User Stories:**

1. You should have an array of objects named `books` where each object in the array should have a string `title`, another string `authorName`, and a number `releaseYear`. 

2. Your `books` array should have a minimum of three objects.

3. You should have a callback function named `sortByYear` that accepts two books as parameter for sorting the array.

4. The `sortByYear` function should return `-1` if the `releaseYear` of the first book is smaller than that of the second book.

5. The `sortByYear` function should return `1` if the `releaseYear` of the first book is bigger than that of the second book.

6. The `sortByYear` function should return `0` for all other scenarios.

7. You should filter out books written after a certain year such as 1950 from the `books` array and save the filtered array in a new array named `filteredBooks`.

> 8. You should sort the books in the `books` array according to their `releaseYear` in ascending order and save the sorted array in a new array named `filteredBooksSorted`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. You should sort the books in the `filteredBooks` array according to their `releaseYear` in ascending order and save the sorted array in a new array named `filteredBooksSorted`.
```

I think you mean this here? You could also maybe add to "use your sortByYear function".

```js
assert.equal(sortByYear({releaseYear: 1913}, {releaseYear: 1925}), -1);
assert.equal(sortByYear({releaseYear: 1925}, {releaseYear: 1913}), 1);
assert.equal(sortByYear({releaseYear: 1925}, {releaseYear: 1925}), 0);
```

You should have an array `books` in your code.

```js
assert.isArray(books)
```

Your `books` array should have at least three book objects.

```js
assert.isAtLeast(books.length, 3)
```

Your `books` array should contain objects each with a string `title`, another string `authorName`, and a number `releaseYear`.

```js

books.forEach((book) => {
  assert.isObject(book);
  assert.sameMembers(Object.keys(book), ["title", "authorName", "releaseYear"]);
  assert.isString(book.title);
  assert.isNotEmpty(book.title);
  assert.isString(book.authorName);
  assert.isNotEmpty(book.authorName);
  assert.isNumber(book.releaseYear);
})
```

You should have an array `filteredBooks` in your code.

```js
assert.isArray(filteredBooks)
```

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion

The `filteredBooks` array should have some of the books filtered out from the `books` array and not be empty.

```js
assert.isBelow(filteredBooks.length, books.length)
assert.isNotEmpty(filteredBooks)
```

````

You should have an array `filteredBooksSorted` in your code.

```js
assert.isArray(filteredBooksSorted)
```

> The `filteredBooksSorted` array should have some of the books filtered out from it and still not empty.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `filteredBooksSorted` array should have some of the books filtered out from it and not be empty.
```

```js
assert.isBelow(filteredBooksSorted.length, books.length)

> assert.isAtLeast(books.length, 1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assert.isAtLeast(filteredBooksSorted.length, 1)
```
I guess this was the idea

> The `filteredBooksSorted` array should have some of the books filtered out from it and not be empty.
> 
> ```js
> assert.isBelow(filteredBooksSorted.length, books.length)
> assert.isAtLeast(books.length, 1)
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
The `filteredBooksSorted` array should have the same length of `filteredBooks`.

```js
assert.lengthOf(filteredBooksSorted, filteredBooks.length)
```
````

You should call the `sort` higher order function by passing the `sortByYear` callback function on the `filteredBooks` array.

```js

> assert.isTrue(filteredBooksSorted.every((book, index, array) => index === 0 || book.releaseYear >= array[index - 1].releaseYear))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assert.match(__helpers.removeJSComments(code), //(const|let)\s+filteredBooksSorted\s*=\s*filteredBooks\s*\.\s*sort\s*\(\s*sortByYear\s*\)//)
```
What if we regex this?

Reviewer: I agree with what we said in the meeting, but what's the point of having that callback function if you don't use it with `sort`? Also, this should be the higher order function lab, so I would expect at least one test checking that a higher order function is actually used somewhere.

1. You should have an array of objects named `books` where each object in the array should have a string `title`, another string `authorName`, and a number `releaseYear`. 

2. Your `books` array should have a minimum of three objects.

3. You should have a callback function named `sortByYear` that accepts two books, `book1`, and `book2` as parameter for sorting the array.

4. The `sortByYear` function should return `-1` if the `releaseYear` of `book1` object is smaller than that of the `book2` object.

5. The `sortByYear` function should return `1` if the `releaseYear` of `book1` object is bigger than that of the `book2` object.

6. The `sortByYear` function should return `0` for all other scenarios.

7. You should call the `filter` higher-order function on the `books` array with a callback to filter out books written after a certain year such as 1950 and save the filtered array in a new array named `filteredBooks`.

8. You should call the `sort` higher order function by passing the `sortByYear` callback function on the `filteredBooks` array to sort the books according to their `releaseYear` in ascending order and save the sorted array in a new array named `filteredBooksSorted`.

> 9. You should call the `forEach` higher order function on the `filteredBooksSorted` array and print out the details of each book following the `<BOOK_TITLE> by <BOOK_AUTHOR> (<releaseYear>)` format.

Reviewer 3: After careful consideration, these 3 user stories and their corresponding hints and tests should be more open ended. It will go more with the spirit of the labs and match better with the other labs.

We already have the workshop that comes immediately before this were the tests are much stricter to look for `filter,` `forEach`, etc. 

In this lab, it should be more open ended and not dependent on regex tests. We will just test the final outcome with other assert methods. 

The wording for all of these should be updated to just check that they have create the variable and assigned it the result of a filtered array, or sorted array, etc.

This will mean that some campers might use other methods for solving this, but I actually think that is ok because like I mentioned earlier, we do have the workshop that will be testing for specific methods 👍

Author: I have updated the stories to leave out any concrete solutions and rely on the camper's discretion.

  assert.isNumber(book.releaseYear);
})
```

You should have an array `filteredBooks` in your code.

```js
assert.isArray(filteredBooks)
```

You should have an array `filteredBooksSorted` in your code.

```js
assert.isArray(filteredBooksSorted)
```

You should call the `filter` higher-order function on the `books` array with a callback to filter out books and save the filtered array in a new array named `filteredBooks`.

```js
assert.match(code, "(let|const)\s{1,}filteredBooks\s*=\s*books\.filter\(\(book\)\s*=>\s*book\.releaseYear\s*[<>=]\s*[0-9]\)")
```

You should call the `sort` higher order function by passing the `sortByYear` callback function on the `filteredBooks` array.

```js
assert.match(code, "(let|const)\s{1,}filteredBooksSorted\s*=\s*filteredBooks\.sort\(sortByYear\)")
```

You should call the `forEach` higher order function on the `filteredBooksSorted` array and print out the details of each book following the `<BOOK_TITLE> by <BOOK_AUTHOR> (<releaseYear>)` format.

```js
assert.match(code, "filteredBooksSorted\.forEach\(\(book\)\s*=>\s*\{\s*console\.log\(`\$\{book\.title\} by \$\{book\.authorName\} \(\$\{book\.releaseYear\}\)`\)\s*\}\)")

> ```

Reviewer 3: These should be updated based on my earlier comment 👍

Author: I have update the tests to check if the array is sorted in a different way. Working on the filtering test and the last one.

```js
assert.isAtLeast(books.length, 3)
```

Your `books` array should contain objects each with a string `title`, another string `authorName`, and a number `releaseYear`.

```js

books.forEach((book) => {
  assert.isObject(book);
  assert.sameMembers(Object.keys(book), ["title", "authorName", "releaseYear"]);
  assert.isString(book.title);
  assert.isNotEmpty(book.title);
  assert.isString(book.authorName);
  assert.isNotEmpty(book.authorName);
  assert.isNumber(book.releaseYear);
})
```

You should have an array `filteredBooks` in your code.

```js
assert.isArray(filteredBooks)
```

The `filteredBooks` array should have some of the books filtered out from the `books` array and not be empty.

```js
assert.isBelow(filteredBooks.length, books.length)
assert.isNotEmpty(filteredBooks)
```

You should have an array `filteredBooksSorted` in your code.

```js
assert.isArray(filteredBooksSorted)
```

The `filteredBooksSorted` array should have the same length of `filteredBooks`.

```js
assert.lengthOf(filteredBooksSorted, filteredBooks.length)
```

You should call the `sort` higher order function by passing the `sortByYear` callback function on the `filteredBooks` array.

> ```js
> assert.match(__helpers.removeJSComments(code), //(const|let)\s+filteredBooksSorted\s*=\s*filteredBooks\s*\.\s*sort\s*\(\s*sortByYear\s*\)//)
> ```

Reviewer 3: this doesn't looks right to me. 

It should probably be this, but you should test it on your end to make sure

````suggestion
```js
assert.match(__helpers.removeJSComments(code), /(const|let)\s+filteredBooksSorted\s*=\s*filteredBooks\s*\.\s*sort\s*\(\s*sortByYear\s*\)/);
```
````

Reviewer: My bad, I tested the regex and then copied and pasted it to make the suggestion and I didn't realize that I left the forward slashes there.
